# Rename the folder to `secrets` before doing anything else, making sure it's ignored by git!
 

## GitHub Container Registry Token
To run the `quick-start-test.sh` script, you'll need to set up the `ghcr-container-registry.read.yml` secret in the `secrets/kubernetes/development` folder.
This secret allows the grouphq minikube cluster to pull images from the GitHub container registry.

To set up the secret, you'll need to create a GitHub personal access token with the `read:packages` scope.

Once you have the token, fill in your details in the following JSON configuration:
```json
{"auths":{"your.private.registry.example.com":{"username":"janedoe","password":"xxxxxxxxxxx","email":"jdoe@example.com","auth":"YOUR_USERNAME_AND_PASSWORD_SEPARATED_BY_A_COLON_AND_BASE64_ENCODED"}}}
```

Notice how the final `auth` key expects a base64 encoded string of your username and password separated by a colon.
In other words, write out your username and password in the following format: `username:password` and base64 encode it.
Then, replace the `YOUR_USERNAME_AND_PASSWORD_SEPARATED_BY_A_COLON_AND_BASE64_ENCODED` placeholder with the encoded string.
You can base64 encode the string using the following command: 
```bash
echo YOUR_USERNAME_AND_PASSWORD_SEPARATED_BY_A_COLON | base64
```

Then, run the following command to base64 encode the entire JSON configuration (which will effectively base64 encode the auth value a second time):
```bash
echo YOUR_JSON_CONFIGURATION | base64
```

Copy the encoded text and paste it into this section of the `ghcr-container-registry-read.yml` file:
```yaml
data:
  .dockerconfigjson: YOUR_BASE64_ENCODED_CONFIGURATION
```

When you run the `quick-start-test.sh` script, the secret will be applied to the grouphq minikube cluster.
Keep an eye on the logs for any problems.

## Let's Encrypt Digital Ocean Access Token (production only)
This secret should exist in production. It uses an access token generated by Digital Ocean to allow communication between cert-manager and Digital Ocean's DNS API.
The access token needs to have both read _and_ write access.

If you're configuring Let's Encrypt for production, the add the access token and apply the secret to the cluster using the following command:
```shell
kubectl apply -f production/letsencrypt-digital-ocean-access-token.yml
```